= Documentation =
These documentation links are separated by release because there have been significant
changes to the server during the current development cycle.
We do our best to keep things current but please note the release version so as to get
the correct information for your installation.

== Version 2.0 ==
This version is in active development and is not considered stable enough for
production use.  Its documentation is still incomplete.

This development series has a number of significant improvements.

* FSALs are now separate loadable modules and any number of them can be configured at runtime.

* Full pNFS support with multiple FSALs is now possible.

* The project has moved from Autotools to [http://www.cmake.org/Wiki/CMake Cmake] for its build system. This necessitates a completely [[BuildingV2|new build process]].

* Server management and statistics gathering is now done via D-Bus.

== Version 1.5 ==
The following pages are valid for version 1.5.x and earlier.

*[[Compiling| Compiling Compiling NFS-GANESHA]]
*[[StatsSNMP| Getting NFS-GANESHA's stats via SNMP]]
*[[Xattrd| Using Extended Attributes ghost directory]]
*[[RPCSEC_GSS| Using RPCSEC_GSS with NFS-GANESHA]]
*[[IPv6| Using IPv6 with NFS-GANESHA]]
*[[Referral| Using NFSv4 referral in NFS-GANESHA]]
*[[9p| Using 9P as a filesystem protocol]]

Detailed documentation for exporting:
*[[XFSLUSTRE| a XFS or LUSTRE filesystem]]
*[[VFS| a VFS based filesystem]]
*[[PROXY| another NFSv4 server (as a proxy server)]]
*[[ZFS| the content of ZFS's pools]]
*[[GLUSTER| a GLUSTER filesystem]]
*[[GPFS| a GPFS filesystem]]

Documentation in PDF Format
*[http://nfs-ganesha.sourceforge.net/files/nfs-ganesha-ols2007.pdf Article about NFS-GANESHA from OLS2007]
