** Work in Progress **

= The Configuration File =
NFS Ganesha reads its configuration file to set all the parameters at startup time.  A future release of the server will extend DBus support to allow parameter changes in an active server.

== Configuration File Syntax ==
The configuration file format is free form. White space is optional and indentation, although good practice for people-readable clarity, has no special meaning.  Except where noted below, any extra whitespace, the end if a line, and line breaks have no significance.

All keywords are case-insensitive and values, except when their meaning, e.g. file names in case sensitive filesystems or has significance to the backend system, are also case insensitive.  The character set for keywords is the ASCII subset of UTF-8.  String values can be any legal UTF-8.

A comment can start anywhere in a line with the '''#''' character.  The comment itself is all the rest of the line up to the end of the line.  For example:

meaningful configuration text '''#''' followed by this comment

Another configuration file can be included by:

'''%include "''' a/path/in/the/filesystem '''"'

The text of the named file will be substituted in place of this directive.

=== General Syntax ===
Configuration parameters are grouped into ''blocks'' according to their function.  Individual parameters are in a ''stanza'' which equates a configuration parameter name with a value.

=== Blocks ===
A block is of the form

 ''block name'' '''{''' block contents '''}'''

The block name identifies the group of parameters.  Each of the parameter sections below is identified by one of these names.

The block's contents are a sequence of stanzas and/or blocks called sub-blocks.

=== Stanzas ===
A stanza is a familiar form for programming languages.

 ''parameter name'' '''=''' parameter value ''';'''

The parameter name is one word beginning with a letter followed by any mix of letters, digits, underscore (_), hyphen (-), and period (.).

If the parameter value is a string, it must be enclosed in double quotes (").

== Configuration Parameters ==
The following sections document all of the configuration parameters by block.  Each section identifies the block's name followed by a table of all its parameters. Please refer to https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/config_samples/config.txt for the latest valid blocks and their stanzas.

Server core parameters: control the central parts of the server. https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-core-config.rst

Event and Error Logging parameters: set up the logging facility. https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-log-config.rst

IP Name Parameters: configure the IP name cache. https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-core-config.rst

FSAL Parameters: configure the FSAL loading and initialization.

Kerberos Parameters: set up Kerberos authentication. https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-core-config.rst

NFSv4 Specific Parameters: https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-core-config.rst

Plan 9 remote protocol Parameters: https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-9p-config.rst

Metadata Cache Parameters: https://github.com/nfs-ganesha/nfs-ganesha/blob/next/src/doc/man/ganesha-cache-config.rst

[[ExportParams | Export Definitions ]] defines the parameters for exporting a filesystem.  There can be multiple exports in a configuration.
